ConnorHiggins-L02-CorrelationOpEd 

Article URL: https://marketrealist.com/2018/05/comparing-bhges-and-novs-correlations-with-crude-oil
Screencap of Article: https://i.imgur.com/gpUrWVI.png
Financial Data (.csv files) obtained using https://intrinio.com/

   On May 5th, the site Market Realist put out an article discussing how the stock price of two companies, Baker Hughes (BHGE)
and National Oilwell Varco (NOV), correlated with West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil's price over two annual time windows:
May 7th 2016 to May 7th 2017 and May 7th 2017 to May7th 2018. The stock price of a third company, VanEck Vectors Oil Services
ETF (OIH), was used as a correlational reference. The author used a standard barplot to illustrate an increase, over time, in the
correlation coefficent of stock prices for both BHGE and NOV and the price of crude oil. The correlation for the stock price of
OIH and crude oil, in contrast, remained relatively constant. The author went on to conclude that the stock prices of BHGE and 
NOV were becoming more dependent on the value of crude oil. 

   The author's use of a barplot has the benefit of succinctly summarizing the changes in correlation from year to year; however, 
there is a good amount of information that is not being conveyed. To illustrate this, I replicated the author's analysis using 
financial data for NOV, OIH, & WTI (crude oil) pulled from intrino.com (BHGE unfortunately wasn't available).

	link : https://i.imgur.com/qSacMRb.png

To summarize, I created time series plots of NOV, OIH, & WTI stock prices over the course of 2016-2017 and 2017-2018. Additionally,
I created 3 seaborn lmplots, scatter plots with linear regressions, between NOV & WTI, OIH & WTI, and NOV & OIH for both time windows.
Along with these plots, the correlation coefficients between stock prices were calculated and stored in pandas DataFrames.

   My findings did not match the author's. First, the correlation between NOV and WTI (crude oil) slightly decreased between time windows,
going from 0.785 to 0.776. NOV appears to have been highly correlative with crude oil for both time windows, rather than increasing in
correlation from year to year. OIH, which the author used as a steady control, actually saw a significant drop in its correlation with 
crude oil, going from 0.776 to 0.372. Finally, the author failed to mention how NOV and OIH correlated with one another. It should have
been noted, as it's possible that all of these stock prices are, in actuality, affected by another market force. For my research, OIH &
NOV had a correlation coefficient of 0.838 in the first time window and a coefficent of 0.663 in the second window.

   Discrepancies between my results and the author's could be due to differences in our data collection, though it seems implausible that
public financial records would vary to that degree. The data I obtained contained missing values for several days, which I thought could be
related to days where the stock market was closed. Our time windows also both started and ended on May 7th. Despite this, one major takeaway 
from this exercise would be that one's choice of time window can greatly influence the correlation results obtained. 

   








